Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to look at
finding a node in our binary tree.
Finding a node is actually
going to be really straightforward
because we've already looked at adding nodes,
so we know how to navigate our tree.
Let's create here a find method,
and we're going to look for a specific value
that is going to be an integer.
Notice that the values of our nodes are all integers,
so the value we're looking for
is going to be an integer as well.
We're going to do pretty much exactly
like the add method does.
We're going to start on the head.
And while it exists, we are going to say,
if the value that we're looking for,
notice this is the parameter here,
is exactly equal to the current node's value,
now we're not gonna raise an error.
We're gonna say "you found it," right?
This is the value we're looking for.
If it exists, it means we're good.
So we're gonna return current node.
Otherwise...
if the...
value we're looking for
is greater than the current node's value,
we have to move right
because we are looking for something
that it must be to the right of this current node.
So we'd say current_node = current_node.right.
And finally, if it's not equal to and it's not greater than,
that means it must be less than.
Current node is current_node.left.
Finally, if we reach the end of the loop,
and we didn't find anything,
we're gonna raise a lookup error.
I'm gonna say at node with value,
value was not found.
Now, notice how, here we just used "else"
inside this if elif else because the value,
the first check was the value is equal
to the current node value.
Second check was the value is greater
than the current node value.
The only thing that's left
is when the value is less than the current node value.
So we can use "else."
We could also do the same here,
in our add.
So once again, if the node value
is equal to the current node value, we'll raise an error.
If it's less than, we go left.
The only that's left is when it's not equal to,
not less than, that means it must be greater than.
We move right.
Okay?
This is how you find nodes in a binary tree,
so let's go ahead and go back to our app.py
and print(tree.find(11)),
and we see that that prints out the node 11 there
that was found in our tree.
So I just wanted to guide you
through implementing this binary tree
because it's a frequent question
asked in interviews and, you know, code challenges.
Also, it's very used in specific
parts of software development,
so it's interesting to know about it.
Hopefully, you enjoyed learning
about this more advanced data structure
as well as complexity and performing binary search.
Thanks for joining me, and I'll see you on the next video.